# Reviewer Questions

This manuscript presents the results of a study examining *plasma levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in relation to trauma and PTSD* associated with the 9/11 WTC attacks. Although the manuscript deals with a potentially important topic, it has a number of methodological and analytic issues that significantly limit the validity of the results and conclusions, as described in detail below. The overall intent of this manuscript is to examine blood GFAP levels associated with psychological trauma and not brain trauma, but the analysis is performed in an inconsistent manner. Specifically, the analyses first *classify the participants into Normal class and Pathological class based primarily on GFAP levels* (and not on brain trauma or stroke), and *then use only participants in the Normal class (i.e., normal GFAP levels) to compare GFAP levels between individuals with PTSD and those without*. However, the rationale for this exclusion of participants with high GFAP levels is not clear. 

# Manuscript

## Abstract
Previous research has suggested that chronically *re-experiencing* the memory of a traumatic event might *cause glial cell suppression* in anticipation of a past neural **insult**. **This study examined whether glial activation would be associated with PTSD** in a study of responders present after the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks without comorbid cerebrovascular disease. Plasma was retrieved from 1,520 WTC responders and stored for a cross-sectional sample of responders of varying levels of exposure and PTSD. **Plasma levels (pg/ml) of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were assayed.**   Because stroke and other cerebrovascular diseases cause distributional shifts in GFAP levels, multivariable-adjusted finite mixture models analyzed GFAP distributions in responders *with and without possible cerebrovascular disease*. Responders were aged 56.3 years and primarily male; 11.07% (n=154) had chronic PTSD. Older age was associated with increased GFAP, whereas higher body mass was associated with decreased GFAP. Multivariable-adjusted finite mixture models revealed that *severe re-experiencing trauma from 9/11 was associated with lower GFAP* (B = -0.558, p=0.003). This study presents evidence of reduced GFAP among WTC responders with PTSD. Results might suggest re-experiencing traumatic events might cause glial suppression. This study presents evidence of reduced GFAP among WTC responders with PTSD. Results might suggest re-experiencing traumatic events might cause glial suppression. 

## Introduction
*Glial cells, also called astroglia cells or neuroglia*, facilitate the brain’s *recovery* from a neural injury and have an array of functions to *insulate neurons*, *neuronal communication*, and *waste elimination* (Nutma et al., 2019). During a normal neuroimmunologic response cycle, *glial* cells are signaled to *reduce response efforts* while *awaiting instructions* to the traumatic exposure and *then* are *activated to respond to an identified injury* (Nutma et al., 2019). While the role of glial cells in maintaining brain health is well understood, **it is unclear whether memories of actual or potential neural injuries independently cause a glial response**. For example, changes in glial activation have been identified in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (McEwen and Rasgon, 2018), a memory-stress condition that causes the brain to sporadically re-experience a stressful memory of an actual event with accompanying fear or panic and real bodily responses. Chronic PTSD occurs when individuals repeatedly re-experience the traumatic event (Bromet et al., 2016) that might cause glial activity to repair the expected neural damage. Yet, **there is a lack of clarity about whether robust evidence of whether glial activities are overly active or suppressed in adults with PTSD**. 

When *glial* cells are *suppressed*, they *minimize* healthy activities, including neuronal *nutrition*, *communication*, and waste *elimination*. A lack of function or dysfunction (i.e., microglial suppression) of these homeostatic activities may be a mechanism relating chronic PTSD to poor brain health and neurodegeneration (McEwen, 2016). One study of WTC responders with chronic *PTSD* found that *monocytes* were being *chronically activated*, with sequencing results suggesting these monocytes, which can act as cerebral macrophages, were primed to respond to viral invaders in the brains of responders with PTSD (Kuan et al., 2019). One study of Veterans with diagnosed chronic *PTSD* found evidence of *neuroimmune suppression immediately after trauma exposure* in early adulthood (Bhatt et al., 2020). Meanwhile some studies support a theory that *PTSD* is associated with *peripheral inflammation*, acting as a catalyst to a neuroinflammatory cascade whereby astroglia express an array of anti-inflammatory proteins (Kettenmann et al., 2011; Villegas-Llerena et al., 2016) and *tamp down other inflammatory responses*. For example, studies find evidence of *lower cytokine levels in people with PTSD in blood-based* (McCanlies et al., 2011; Plantinga et al., 2013; Sondergaard et al., 2004) and *cerebrospinal fluid* studies (Baker et al., 2001; Bonne et al., 2011) and one PET study of PTSD symptomatology reported the presence of *heightened glial activation among those with more severe PTSD symptoms* (Deri et al., 2021). Indeed, a metaanalysis said that adults with *PTSD had elevated levels of circulating peripheral immune biomarkers compared to healthy controls* (Passos et al., 2015a). 

When glial cells react to stress, they emit a *neuroinflammatory protein* known as **glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)**, suggesting that GFAP might be a putative biomarker of proglial activation (Abdelhak et al., 2022). Histological studies have further found that GFAP protein are expressed by reactive glia and match levels of neuro inflammation (Brunkhorst et al., 2010; Foerch et al., 2006; Foerch et al., 2012). Measuring plasma GFAP is an affordable, lowrisk, and non-invasive alternative to neuroimaging studies through venipuncture. However, the literature has also reported that hemorrhagic *stroke can cause a nearly 20-fold increase in GFAP* levels **within four hours of the event** (Katsanos et al., 2017) while other conditions do not cause such enormous increases (Schiff et al., 2012). Since *strokes are underdiagnosed* and the goal of the study was to determine glial distribution under normal cerebral operations, it was imperative that we accounted for the confounding presence of stroke in a study of GFAP among individuals with and without chronic PTSD. We *hypothesize that WTC responders with PTSD would have lower levels of GFAP* than responders without PTSD. We further examined the relationships between GFAP distributions associated with PTSD severity; and GFAP volume related to reexperiencing the traumatic event(s). 

## Method
The thousands of workers and volunteers who participated in the rescue and recovery efforts following the attacks on the World Trade Center (WTC) on September 11th, 2001 (9/11), were exposed to an extraordinary array of psychological traumas (Neria et al., 2011) and toxic exposures (Lioy and Georgopoulos, 2006). The current analysis focuses on responders participating in the World Trade Center Aging Proteomics Study at Stony Brook University. As responders age, research shows that responders are experiencing an elevated risk of symptoms consistent with rapid neurological aging and the presence of neurodegenerative disease. As a result, they have long shared a high risk of physical and mental health disorders, including a chronically elevated risk of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (Bromet et al., 2016). The severity of WTC exposure and chronic PTSD are the two most salient risk factors (Clouston et al., 2021). 2001年9月11日（9/11）世贸中心(WTC)袭击后，数千名工人和志愿者参与了救援和恢复工作，他们暴露在一系列非同寻常的心理创伤（Neria et al.，2011)和有毒物质暴露（Lioy and Georgopoulos，2006)中。 目前的分析集中在参与石溪大学世贸中心衰老蛋白质组学研究的反应者。 随着应答者的年龄增长，研究表明，应答者正在经历与快速神经老化和神经退行性疾病存在一致的症状的风险增加。 因此，他们长期以来共同面临着身心健康障碍的高风险，包括创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)的慢性高风险（Bromet et al.，2016)。 WTC暴露的严重程度和慢性PTSD是两个最显著的风险因素（Clouston et al.，2021)。 

We assessed GFAP in plasma of 1,529 WTC responders with valid diagnostic information of PTSD and WTC exposure variables who were eligible for this study. The research team linked the proteomics data to existing WTC monitoring records that included PTSD symptoms obtained and measured serially since baseline. We *excluded five responders who reported any head injury* suffered while on-site and *four responders with missing information on
demographics*, leaving a final analytic sample of N=1,520 responders.

GFAP volumes in the plasma (possible detection range 0–4,000 pg/mL) were analyzed using Simoa ®, an ultra-sensitive analyzer that is a bead-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Whole blood samples from responders were collected in K2-EDTA blood collection tubes, placed on ice, and then centrifuged at 2,000g for 15 minutes at 4°C. Plasma samples were separated and placed into polyethylene tubes before being stored at −80°C until shipping. Plasma samples to be assayed at QuanterixTM laboratories were transported on dry ice. Samples were auto diluted at 4X. The average coefficients of variation (intraplate and inter-plate) values were below 10%. GFAP volumes were calculated using the composite approach. Results reported represent averaged results across duplicate arrays, and all values were expressed in pg/ml. The limit of detection (LOD) was 0.211 pg/mL (0.108–0.284 pg/mL) and was calculated as 2.5 standard deviations from the mean background signal read back on each calibration curve over one reagent lot per instrument. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) was 0.686 pg/mL and was measured in triplicate measurements using a serially diluted calibrator and was read back on the calibration curve over one reagent lot on a single instrument (five runs). No participants had plasma biomarker levels below the lower limit of quantification (∼0.01 pg/ml). 

PTSD symptoms were assessed at each monitoring visit using the PTSD checklistspecific trauma version tailored to the WTC disaster (*PCL-17 trauma-specific version*) (Wilkins 7 et al., 2011). Individuals rated the extent to which they were bothered by PTSD symptoms relating to WTC exposures in the past month on a scale from 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely). Items were summed into an overall severity score and also were summed within four distinct PTSD symptom dimensions consistent with four-factor models of PTSD dimensionality (King et al., 1998): re-experiencing the event (e.g., flashbacks/nightmares), effortful avoidance (e.g., actively avoiding reminders), emotional numbing (e.g., emotionally distancing from life), and hyperarousal (e.g., being ever aware and on edge) (Cronbach’s a = 0.96). *Current PTSD status was determined using the PCL using a cutoff of ≥44 to indicate probable PTSD* for descriptive purposes. Since different domains of PTSD often indicate different outcomes, we evaluated the importance of distinct domains, and found that relying on re-experiencing symptoms improved prediction thereby justifying our reliance on this subset of symptoms in analyses. 

Demographic variables included age (in years), female sex, race/ethnicity, and educational attainment. *Race/ethnicity included four categories: Non-Hispanic White, Black, Other/Mixed, and Hispanic ethnicity.* Education (%) was categorized into 3 levels because >98% of responders had at least a high-school degree: High school or Less, Some college (<2 years), and a 4-year university degree. Physical Health variables included: Smoking status (e.g., % of current, never, former smoker); Body Mass Index (BMI) in kg/m2; Height (cm); history of medical conditions including hypertension (yes/no), diabetes (yes/no), or Stroke (yes/no). 

WTC exposure variables included *Non-Traditional Responder, Exposure Duration; Dust Cloud Exposure; and No Supervisory Work*. Non-Traditional Responders (%) present on the WTC site included anyone who was not trained to be a responder to accidents and trauma, for example, electricians, engineers, bus drivers, and Good Samaritan, volunteers. Exposure Duration was measured in the number of weeks a responder was on the WTC site beginning 9/11/2001. Dust Cloud Exposure measured the % of the time a responder was under a dust cloud from the WTC attacks. No Supervisory Work (%) measured the number of responders on the ground working tasks compared to Officers or others who primarily did supervisory work away from the most intense exposures. 

Descriptive sample statistics (means and standard deviations) were calculated for the entire sample and subgroup comparisons. We, therefore, *expected that GFAP* would *stratify* from prior literature into *two subclasses*, indicating a *Normal* Class of neurological operations versus a *Pathological* Class due to the presence of brain trauma or stroke (i.e., cerebrovascular disease.) However, GFAP cutoffs are not well validated and may differ depending on age, gender, race/ethnicity, and even blood volume. A *multivariable-adjusted finite mixture modeling (below) determined two classes* to the GFAP distribution, with one class represented by a normal distribution of GFAP and another class characterized by the *highest-high GFAP levels* associated with *brain injury or stroke*. Finite mixture modeling allows us to model the presence of classes, including, for example, a Pathological Class, while jointly modeling correlates of GFAP distribution within either subclass as necessary. *We assumed that GFAP distributions in the Normal Class* might be related systematically to several variables that follow a *Gaussian* 9 distribution. In the *Pathological* Class, however, we assumed that GFAP distributions would follow a continuous *Log-Gamma distribution* as it is common in indicators that are biased monotonically by a disease. Sensitivity analyses examined whether to use more classes; *the twoclass model performed the best* and is reported here. A quantile-quantile plot upheld the Gaussian distributional assumptions; supporting this decision, we found that the skew and kurtosis were within normal parameters (s = 0.46, k = 2.59). The Pathological Class was nonGaussian and highly skewed, so we used the Gamma distribution to measure the serologic protein volume. These two classes were derived from the model directly for bivariable comparisons and to describe these classes. For descriptive purposes, class membership was estimated using posterior predicted values; *a cutoff value ≥0.10 identifying participants in the Pathological Class*. This value appeared to differentiate the highest-high GFAP levels from the low to low-high GFAP levels in distributional analyses. Sensitivity analyses determined whether the highest-high GFAP cutoffs were a primary driver of reported results to address potential bias (see Appendix Table 1.) We further examined symptom-specific predictors of PTSD and depression on the distribution volume of GFAP using OLS regression (Appendix Table 2.) 

Sensitivity analyses examined any changes to conclusions when modifying distributional assumptions. Analyses were also stratified to examine whether results differed across officer status and burden of PTSD. Analyses further examined the role of early enrollment by excluding individuals enrolled after 2008. Because treatment may provide a mechanism through which PTSD affects neuroinflammation, analyses *examined whether medication treatment for PTSD mediated results*. Because glial activation may differ in its impact on responders with dementia, we further *examined whether excluding those screening responders with dementia changed results*. Finally, prior work has found that untrained responders who worked in construction or volunteer positions helping after 9/11/2001 are often more strongly affected by their experiences (Luft et al.), so we *stratified results by occupational (trained/untrained)* status to determine whether associations were larger in that group. Results in stratified analyses were compared using Welch’s t-tests to compare beta coefficients from seemingly unrelated regressions. 

## Results
Consistent with the interpretation that the *Pathological Class* had responders with cerebrovascular disease; 11.63% of responders in the Pathological Class had a history of stroke compared to 1.44% of those in the Normal Class (relative risk = 8.08, P<0.001). Descriptive characteristics for the sample and two subclasses defined by 1) responders without cerebrovascular disease (Normal Class) and 2) with probable-cerebrovascular disease (Pathological Class) are shown in Table 1. Mean GFAP concentrations differed significantly between the Normal versus Pathological Classes of responders and the whole sample (Table 1). The average age of responders was 56 years (p<0.001), but was younger in the Normal Class (aged 55 years on average) and older in the Pathological Class (aged 66 years on average) (Table 1). The sample was predominantly non-Hispanic White (88.6%) compared to responders with Other race/ethnicity (1.97%), Hispanic (6.6%), and Black (2.9%). The sample of responders varied significantly (p<0.001) between the whole sample, the Normal Class, and the potentially Pathological Class in BMI, height, cardiovascular disease, and history of stroke. Exposure duration (weeks) and 9/11 dust cloud exposure were similar across all responders in the sample (p=0.925). Responders with no supervisory work and non-traditional responders varied between classes, such that the potentially Pathological Class had less exposure on the ground site on 9/11 and had a higher proportion of non-traditional responders. Smoking history, higher educational attainment, female sex, and race/ethnicity did not vary between classes. 

WTC responders varied significantly by GFAP concentrations, with *PTSD-affected responders having significantly lower GFAP levels than the non-PTSD group* (Figure 1). Table 2 shows the subsample group’s characteristics of responders with no cerebrovascular diseases, stratified by PTSD status. Mean GFAP values were higher among responders in the Normal Class with no PTSD symptoms (68.88 ± 23.39 pg/mL, N=1,237) than those with PTSD (63.80 ± 23.64 pg/mL, N=154) (Table 2). Figure 2 shows a scatter plot showing the glial fibrillary acidic protein distribution by age, with the best fitting line shows the expected elevation in glial fibrillary acidic protein by age in the Normal Class. 

**Multivariable-adjusted analyses derived from finite mixture models** examining the WTC responders’ distribution volume of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the Normal Class are shown in Table 3. Model 1, finite mixture models adjusted for demographics (gender, race/ethnicity) in all models for both class membership and distribution volumes within each class. In Model 2, we adjusted class membership analyses to include a clinical history of stroke, hypertension, diabetes, smoking status, height and body mass, occupation and training level, and WTC toxic exposures. Model 1 reported statistically significant decreases in GFAP levels. In the multivariable-adjusted model (Model 2), PTSD symptom severity was still associated with decreased glial activation, but not significant after adjusting for body mass and height. We found that older age was significantly associated with elevated GFAP volumes (p<0.001) among those and those with PTSD. Results revealed that responders with greater BMI had reduced GFAP levels (p<0.001). Additionally, bivariate, and demographically adjusted models showed that PTSD was not associated with increased odds of Pathological Class membership (B = 0.048, SE = 0.035, P=0.163). 

First, we examined whether distribution assumptions changed results; however, while differences in assumptions did change the overall number of individuals in the abnormal GFAP class, we did not find that results changed expectations in the Normal Class. Follow-up analyses stratifying by trained versus untrained responder status suggested that *GFAP decreases associated with PTSD* symptomatology were somewhat *larger in untrained WTC responders* (difference = -2.17, SE = 0.44, P<0.001), though other associations remained similar between these groups. Next, we examined if there were differences in associations between PTSD and GFAP in the Normal Class when *different class-related cutoffs* were used. Using a cutoff of 0.05 rather than 0.1 resulted in 16 fewer responders being classed as having a possible stroke, while using a cutoff of 0.2 resulted in 26 additional responders having a possible stroke. The direction and size of the results showed that individuals with PTSD had lower GFAP levels (difference = 3.7 pg/ml, and -4.3 for cutoffs at 0.05 and 0.2, respectively. We also examined the potential benefit of increasing the number of possible classes from 2, as reported here, to 1, 3 and 4 (Supplemental Table XXX for model fit statistics). Briefly, we found that the *model for 4 classes did not converge*, while the model using *3 groups converged but did not improve fit and identified a very small class of individuals with relatively low GFAP*. Since hypogliosis is not a known condition, we felt that this suggested that the 3-class solution was sub-optimal. Next, we examined whether an earlier or later *date of enrollment* in the parent monitoring program might result in differences in outcomes by *stratifying analyses by year of enrollment* but found that such stratification did not substantively change results and that results remained significant in those who were enrolled before 2009 (P=0.012). Finally, we examined whether results differed when individuals with a history of mild cognitive impairment or dementia were excluded and found that results were very similar and statistically significant (p<0.001). 

## Conclusion
PTSD is a common condition among many individuals exposed to severely stressful life events, and in WTC responders, chronic PTSD appears to be associated with poorer brain health. Our study contributes to our understanding of neuroimmunological mechanisms in chronic PTSD. In this study, we found that more *severe symptoms of PTSD were inversely associated with lower GFAP volumes in adults* without suspected stroke pathology. Decreases in glial activation likely indicate that the brain's immune system is not achieving homeostasis. For example, an independent postmortem investigation reported neuroimmune tamping as measured on neuroimaging and in a sub-study examining the expression of microglia-associated genes (e.g., TNFRSF14 and TSPOAP1) in postmortem brain analyses. Based on previous research and the results of this study, we suspect that repeatedly reliving vivid traumatic events combined with severe forms of chronic PTSD may stop the production of neuroinflammatory proteins and reduce the amount of neuroinflammatory markers in the brain. Results support the hypothesis that chronic *PTSD is associated with glial tamping*, and may indicate decreases in the brain's ability to mount an immune defense. 

During chronic PTSD, the chronic activation of the immune response following a reentrant stressful memory. Overall, this may be problematic as glial activation has been equated with neuroimmune regulation and control of synaptic plasticity (Bellver-Landete et al., 2019; Parkhurst et al., 2013) with many reports seemingly reporting a consistent over-expression of neuroinflammatory markers in people with PTSD (Passos et al., 2015b). Yet, while PTSD is consistently diagnosed across populations, results between studies of *PTSD* using different measures of *neuroimmune* functioning are *inconsistent*. For example, studies of WTC responders (Rosen et al., 2017) and veterans both have reported increased levels of CRP in PTSD (Bhatt et al., 2020). Additionally, studies of WTC responders have reported *overactivation* of inflammatory mechanisms in cell subpopulations focused *on monocytes* (Kuan et al., 2019) which were linked to neural response to biotic and stressful exposures (Kuan et al., 2021). Additionally, studies of WTC responders report *upregulation of glia (measured using F18FEPPA) in responders with more PTSD symptoms (Deri et al., 2021)*. In contrast, studies of Veterans report heightened levels of CRP accompanied by *glial tamping as measured using C11-PBR28* in PTSD (Bhatt et al., 2020). 

Perceived inconsistencies in the results above may be due to the redundant, phasespecific nature of the neuroimmune system: the neuroimmune system relies on *glia as a first line defense* but can also *recruit monocytes from the blood to act as cerebral macrophages as a second line* of defense, and both cells have pro- and anti-inflammatory phases (Spiteri et al., 2022). For example, reactive glia and macrophages all express cytokines, chemokines, growth factors, and other proteins to attenuate or avoid brain damage caused by trauma (Nordengen et al., 2019). Yet, *macrophages do not express TSPO to the same extent as glial cells* and TSPO ligands seem also to differ in measurement sensitivity with *F18-FEPPA specifically targeting CD68+ (anti-inflammatory; M2) glial cells* (Zammit et al., 2020), while *C11-PBR28 may target macrophages irrespective of phase* (Chen et al., 2021). In contrast, GFAP levels are consistently expressed by glia but inconsistently expressed by macrophages – with *M2 macrophages upregulating GFAP* expression while M1 macrophages downregulating GFAP expression (Haan et al., 2015). Thus, one conclusion from these seemingly inconsistent results is that PTSD elicits a robust macrophagic response (both pro- [M1] and anti-inflammatory [M2]) but also elicits a muted or tamped glial response in comparison, ultimately resulting in reductions in GFAP. 

Since these results are speculative, it may behoove us to note that other theories also exist. For example, *microglia represent only a small fraction of overall glial activation*, but GFAP must not only be expressed by glia but must also *avoid binding to the brain and ultimately be shed into the blood*. Recent evidence suggests that GFAP in older adults with evidence of high cerebral amyloid burden, TBI, or stroke might be increased (Abdelhak et al., 2022), GFAP levels could be significantly *reduced* in individuals with other neuropathologies specifically because *GFAP might be binding directly to the cerebrum* thereby avoiding being sloughed into the blood (Pereira et al., 2021). Supporting this view, a prior study of WTC responders with PTSD and mild cognitive impairment found downregulation of putative markers of interneuronal damage (e.g., , Neurocan, and Brevican) among responders with PTSD because they are similarly being absorbed by the brain (Kuan et al., 2020; Waszczuk et al., 2023). These results may, therefore, simply reflect the view that people with **PTSD are developing brain injury that differs from Alzheimer’s disease, stroke, and traumatic brain injury in the levels of GFAP that are expressed**. 

Concerning therapeutics, the development of novel treatment strategies based on a deeper understanding of biological mechanisms underlying PTSD, such as inflammatory pathology, is of particular significance. Hori and Kim (2019) proposed that elevated pro-inflammatory markers are useful in classifying (stress-related) psychiatric disorders with PTSD, perhaps constituting a model case in which heightened inflammation resides at the crossroads where peripheral inflammation meets neuroinflammation. However, increased neuroinflammation is not observed in all patients with PTSD, appears to depend somewhat on the measure of inflammation used in the study and is not a unique feature of PTSD compared to other neuropsychiatric disorders. Regarding therapeutic intervention, results may suggest that antiinflammatory medications could have variable impact on individuals with PTSD if they act on glia as compared to macrophages. Thus, it is premature to explore the prospect of inflammationtargeted therapeutic techniques before the mechanism of inflammation is thoroughly understood in terms of intervention and therapy. 关于治疗学，基于对 PTSD 潜在生物学机制（例如炎症病理学）的更深入理解而开发新的治疗策略具有特别重要的意义。 Hori 和 Kim (2019) 提出升高的促炎标志物可用于分类（与压力相关的）精神疾病与 PTSD，这或许构成了一个模型案例，其中炎症加剧存在于外周炎症与神经炎症相遇的十字路口。 然而，并未在所有 PTSD 患者中观察到神经炎症增加，这似乎在某种程度上取决于研究中使用的炎症测量，并且与其他神经精神疾病相比，这并不是 PTSD 的独特特征。 关于治疗干预，结果可能表明，如果与巨噬细胞相比，抗炎药物作用于神经胶质细胞，则它们可能对患有 PTSD 的个体产生不同的影响。 因此，在炎症发生机制未从干预和治疗方面深入了解之前，探索炎症靶向治疗技术的前景还为时过早。

Though being the first cross-sectional study to describe the distribution of GFAP in individuals with PTSD or WTC responders in general, our study has several limitations that should be noted when trying to understand its conclusions. First, this study sought to understand a putative biomarker for brain activity. Previous work in this area has used the gold standard of neuroimaging studies to consider this research topic on stress-related psychiatric disorders. The present study cannot localize the impact of GFAP within the brain, nor can it examine the impact of neuroinflammation within the brain. Yet, this study incorporated information on a scale that is impossible for neuroimaging studies and therefore allowed us to examine the potential for other covariates to modulate the results of this study. Furthermore, while neuroimaging studies are limited in investigating individuals with high body mass, anxiety and/or claustrophobia, and dangerous metal implants, this study could specifically examine those individuals. Our sample was predominantly male, and nearly all responders in the cohort worked in first responder occupations (e.g., police, firefighter, emergency medical, etc.), or in constructionbased occupations in 2001 when they were traumatically exposed. The exposures on-site at the WTC were relatively unique, and while we did not see a large exposure effect, we cannot rule out the potential that other exposures than those reported here may change the brain’s immune response. Yet, while these factors may reduce the generalizability of effects, the experience and symptoms of PTSD are like those in other cohorts and due to other exposures. 

Immunological dysregulation in PTSD may include the loss or suppression of neuroprotective microglia, resulting in decreased GFAP volumes associated with increased PTSD symptom severity. Glial activation can be both helpful and harmful, thus the interpretation of lower GFAP volumes in PTSD remains unclear at this time. For example, the presence of heightened GFAP following a stroke likely reflects activation of helpful glia seeking to repair damage caused by the stroke – in a sample without stroke, these results may operate quite differently and indicate that chronic suppression of anti-inflammatory glia could result in poorer brain maintenance and increased risk of cerebral atrophy in the long-term. As such, studies investigating how best to support regular maintenance activities in the neuroimmune system of individuals with PTSD may be warranted. 