1. Definitions of lifestyle medicine from leading organizations and texts in the field 
	 1. American College of Lifestyle Medicine (ACLM) 
		-  Lifestyle medicine is a medical specialty that uses therapeutic lifestyle interventions as a  primary modality to treat chronic conditions including, but not limited to, cardiovascular  diseases, type 2 diabetes, and obesity. Lifestyle medicine certified clinicians are trained to apply  evidence-based, whole-person, prescriptive lifestyle change to treat and, when used intensively,  often reverse such conditions. Applying the six pillars of lifestyle medicine—a whole-food and  plant-predominant eating pattern, physical activity, restorative sleep, stress management,  avoidance of risky substances, and positive social connections—also provides effective  prevention for these conditions.  
			- Note: A whole food plant-based dietary pattern consists of mostly food from plants (such as  whole grains, vegetables, fruits, beans, and legumes) with little to no animal products (such  as dairy, meat, or eggs). 
	2.  2018 Lifestyle Medicine Core Competencies
		-  Lifestyle medicine offers a unique approach that leverages a whole food plant-based dietary  pattern, physical activity, sleep, emotional well-being, and avoiding risky substances to not only  prevent but also treat and reverse lifestyle-related diseases. 
	3. Lifestyle Medicine , by Garry Egger  
		-  Lifestyle medicine is the application of medical, behavioral, motivational, and environmental  principles to the management of lifestyle-related health problems in a clinical setting. Teaching  self-care and self-management are important elements of lifestyle medicine. 2) Intensive Therapeutic Lifestyle Change (ITLC) treatment programs a) ITLC programs encourage drastic changes in one’s daily routine, including sleep habits, eating  pattern, physical activity, and stress management. The program is usually administered in a group  setting, and it typically involves a multi-modality team. Multi-modality teams may include a provider,  pharmacist, registered dietitian, certified health coach, condition management nurse, or physical  therapist, among others. Typically, ITLC programs include in-person or virtual outpatient visits  that last approximately 60 minutes, and those visits occur 1–3 times per week for 8–18 weeks.  ITLC programs may also be residential programs that are generally 7–21 days long. Shorter ITLC  immersion programs also exist and generally last 3–10 days. 4 b) The methods of ITLC programs are evidence-based and shown to work with accepted research  methods. Notable published ITLC programs include the Pritikin program, Ornish program, and the  Diehl CHIP (Complete Health Improvement Project) program (now known as Pivio). 5–9 c) ITLC programs can produce the essential induction phase that is needed for people to make  the dramatic lifestyle changes that are necessary for treating severe disease. These programs  support and help the patient experience health improvements firsthand in their own bodies without  requiring much engagement of the patient’s motivation or self-efficacy, and they can transform a  patient’s concept of what is possible with lifestyle change. Ideally, an induction phase precedes the  maintenance and support phases in lifestyle change. 10–12 3) History of lifestyle medicine a) Pioneers of lifestyle medicine 1.    Hippocrates